Brought this cause we built React Native apps and I really want to emphasize this.
We built React Native apps but we built them with a tool called Expo and as you saw overall it this
cause Expo mostly get out of our way but it made building these apps way simpler.
The setup process is simple you can test it on your real device without any special configuration that
you can easily add native modules and you have a huge catalog of built in native modules Enzo Enzo developing
React Native apps with the UP of Expo is really easy and therefore my recommended way of doing it now
there can be reasons why you might want to build an app without excel.
For one you must not forget that expo of course works such that you have the expo client on your real
device or although any simulator of course there we all in the end installed the expo lines though this
app on the device and your app kind of gets loaded into that Clyde now you still will be able to publish
a standalone app as you learn so you can still publish your app which you upload to the app stores where
people don't need to install declined but this published app will in the end kind of include dead app
wrapper so it will be a standalone app where people don't need to install the expo client app but the
expo client app is part of your app you could say.
So people indirectly install it if that makes sense.
So you'll always have his wrapper in there for one reason for not using X but could be dead you want
to get rid of that wrapper because as you might imagine this wrapper while still giving you a native
app and while still giving you the benefits of your view is being compiled to native use while it's
all of that is the case does a wrapper of course as a little bit of size to your app your app gets bigger.
It probably also gets a bit slower because of that extra wrapper though.
I still want to emphasize you get a native comp. app right.
Your views still are compiled to native code so you don't lose that.
It's not like ionic where you have like ionic use a native app as a wrapper for a web app.
That's not what's happening here.
Still you have that overhead.
So one reason for not using Expo might be that you want to get rid of that extra wrapper and no reason
could be that you need some native device functionality outside of what we used in the native feature
module that isn't included in expo.
So as some feature which you just can't add with the help of Expo and then you're stuck if you need
some feature that's not part of expos of which you can find here.
Then you can't add it to a react native app built with expo there's no way for that you can't write
your own native code and connected and you can't bring other third party packages which tap into a native
device features that's not supported at Expo.
So these could be two reasons for why you want to switch away you want to get rid of that wrapper because
every millisecond of performance matters to you and every kilobytes of size matters you or because of
a native feature that's missing.
Now I will emphasize for most apps both reasons probably don't apply because we're not talking about
a huge performance hit.
We're not talking about a super huge app what you would be getting indeed is very lean but still that
might be a thing for some apps.
And the thing with the native modules which might be missing there is so many included.
Chances are that you can built the app you want to build with what's included but in case something
is missing you can of course all the builder react native app and we can find that on the official docs
too without Expo.
Now let me dive into the alternatives you have.